app/docs/getting-started/page.mdx, before:

import {Steps} from "nextra/components";
import {Tabs} from "nextra/components";

# Getting Started

## Quick Start

If you are looking to get started quickly, we recommend using the [expo-starter](https://github.com/moveinready-casa/expo-starter) project.

<Steps>
## Use the template or clone the repo

## Install the dependencies

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   pnpm install 
   ```
   
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   npm install 
   ```
   
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Run the project

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   pnpm start 
   ```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   npm run start 
   ```
   
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Reset the project

Once you are done playing with the demo, you can reset the project by running the following command:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   pnpm reset 
   ```

   </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy 
  npm run reset
  ```
  
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

</Steps>

## Manual Installation

If you have an existing project, or want to install shadcn-native manually, you can do so by following the steps below.

<Steps>
### Install the core dependencies

These are the core dependencies you will need to install to use any of the components. Each component may ship its own dependencies.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["expo", "pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    expo install @expo/browser-polyfill tailwind-variants@3.x.x tw-merge@3.x.x twrnc@4.x.x lucide-react-native@0.540.x nativewind@4.x.x react-native-reanimated@~3.x.x react-native-safe-area-context@5.x.x
     
    expo install -D tailwindcss@^3.4.17 prettier-plugin-tailwindcss@^0.5.11

    expo install @expo/router
    expo install @expo/vector-icons
    expo install @expo/linking
    expo install @expo/constants
    expo install @expo/dev-client
    ```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    pnpm install tailwind-variants@3.x.x tw-merge@3.x.x twrnc@4.x.x lucide-react-native@0.540.x nativewind@4.x.x react-native-reanimated@~3.x.x react-native-safe-area-context@5.x.x
    pnpm install -D tailwindcss@^3.4.17 prettier-plugin-tailwindcss@^0.5.11
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    npm install tailwind-variants@3.x.x tw-merge@3.x.x twrnc@4.x.x lucide-react-native@0.540.x nativewind@4.x.x react-native-reanimated@~3.x.x react-native-safe-area-context@5.x.x
    npm install --save-dev tailwindcss@^3.4.17 prettier-plugin-tailwindcss@^0.5.11
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Configure Nativewind

> [!NOTE]
>
> Make sure to place your `globals.css` file in the `app` directory of your project.

- [Expo](https://www.nativewind.dev/docs/getting-started/installation#2-setup-tailwind-css)
- [React Native (Frameworkless)](https://www.nativewind.dev/docs/getting-started/installation/frameworkless#2-setup-tailwind-css)

### Configure Themes

Themes are hard to get right. This is the approach we recommend. See the [themes](/docs/themes) section for more information.

- Update your `tailwind.config.js` file to:

```js filename="tailwind.config.js" copy
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
  darkMode: "class",
  // Update this to your project's paths
  content: ["./app/**/*.{ts,tsx}", "./components/**/*.{ts,tsx}"],
  presets: [require("nativewind/preset")],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        border: "var(--border)",
        input: "var(--input)",
        ring: "var(--ring)",
        background: "var(--background)",
        foreground: "var(--foreground)",
        primary: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--primary)",
          foreground: "var(--primary-foreground)",
        },
        secondary: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--secondary)",
          foreground: "var(--secondary-foreground)",
        },
        destructive: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--destructive)",
          foreground: "var(--destructive-foreground)",
        },
        success: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--success)",
          foreground: "var(--success-foreground)",
        },
        warning: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--warning)",
          foreground: "var(--warning-foreground)",
        },
        muted: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--muted)",
          foreground: "var(--muted-foreground)",
        },
        accent: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--accent)",
          foreground: "var(--accent-foreground)",
        },
        popover: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--popover)",
          foreground: "var(--popover-foreground)",
        },
        card: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--card)",
          foreground: "var(--card-foreground)",
        },
        sidebar: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--sidebar-background)",
          foreground: "var(--sidebar-foreground)",
          primary: "var(--sidebar-primary)",
          "primary-foreground": "var(--sidebar-primary-foreground)",
          accent: "var(--sidebar-accent)",
          "accent-foreground": "var(--sidebar-accent-foreground)",
          border: "var(--sidebar-border)",
          ring: "var(--sidebar-ring)",
        },
      },
      borderRadius: {
        xl: "calc(var(--radius) + 4px)",
        lg: "var(--radius)",
        md: "calc(var(--radius) - 2px)",
        sm: "calc(var(--radius) - 4px)",
        full: "100%",
      },
    },
  },
  plugins: [],
};
```

- Update your `app/globals.css` file to:

```css filename="app/globals.css" copy
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer base {
  :root {
    --radius: 0.625rem;
    --background: #ffffff;
    --foreground: #252525;
    --card: #ffffff;
    --card-foreground: #252525;
    --popover: #ffffff;
    --popover-foreground: #252525;
    --primary: #343434;
    --primary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --secondary: #f7f7f7;
    --secondary-foreground: #343434;
    --success: #22c55e;
    --warning: #eab308;
    --muted: #f7f7f7;
    --muted-foreground: #8e8e8e;
    --accent: #f7f7f7;
    --accent-foreground: #343434;
    --destructive: #ef4444;
    --border: #ebebeb;
    --input: #ebebeb;
    --ring: #b5b5b5;
    --chart-1: #f97316;
    --chart-2: #06b6d4;
    --chart-3: #3b82f6;
    --chart-4: #84cc16;
    --chart-5: #f59e0b;
    --sidebar: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-foreground: #252525;
    --sidebar-primary: #343434;
    --sidebar-primary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-accent: #f7f7f7;
    --sidebar-accent-foreground: #343434;
    --sidebar-border: #ebebeb;
    --sidebar-ring: #b5b5b5;
  }

  .dark:root {
    --background: #252525;
    --foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --card: #343434;
    --card-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --popover: #444444;
    --popover-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --primary: #ebebeb;
    --primary-foreground: #343434;
    --secondary: #444444;
    --secondary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --muted: #444444;
    --muted-foreground: #b5b5b5;
    --accent: #5f5f5f;
    --accent-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --destructive: #dc2626;
    --success: #16a34a;
    --warning: #ca8a04;
    --border: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
    --input: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.15);
    --ring: #8e8e8e;
    --chart-1: #8b5cf6;
    --chart-2: #10b981;
    --chart-3: #f59e0b;
    --chart-4: #ec4899;
    --chart-5: #dc2626;
    --sidebar: #343434;
    --sidebar-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-primary: #8b5cf6;
    --sidebar-primary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-accent: #444444;
    --sidebar-accent-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-border: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
    --sidebar-ring: #707070;
  }
}
```

- Add the `theme.ts` file to your project:

```ts filename="lib/utils/theme.ts" copy
import {useColorScheme} from "react-native";

export const theme = {
  light: {
    radius: "0.625rem",
    background: "#ffffff",
    foreground: "#252525",
    card: "#ffffff",
    cardForeground: "#252525",
    popover: "#ffffff",
    popoverForeground: "#252525",
    primary: "#343434",
    primaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    secondary: "#f7f7f7",
    secondaryForeground: "#343434",
    success: "#22c55e",
    warning: "#eab308",
    muted: "#f7f7f7",
    mutedForeground: "#8e8e8e",
    accent: "#f7f7f7",
    accentForeground: "#343434",
    destructive: "#ef4444",
    border: "#ebebeb",
    input: "#ebebeb",
    ring: "#b5b5b5",
    chart1: "#f97316",
    chart2: "#06b6d4",
    chart3: "#3b82f6",
    chart4: "#84cc16",
    chart5: "#f59e0b",
    sidebar: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarForeground: "#252525",
    sidebarPrimary: "#343434",
    sidebarPrimaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarAccent: "#f7f7f7",
    sidebarAccentForeground: "#343434",
    sidebarBorder: "#ebebeb",
    sidebarRing: "#b5b5b5",
  },
  dark: {
    background: "#252525",
    foreground: "#fbfbfb",
    card: "#343434",
    cardForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    popover: "#444444",
    popoverForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    primary: "#ebebeb",
    primaryForeground: "#343434",
    secondary: "#444444",
    secondaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    muted: "#444444",
    mutedForeground: "#b5b5b5",
    accent: "#5f5f5f",
    accentForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    destructive: "#dc2626",
    success: "#16a34a",
    warning: "#ca8a04",
    border: "rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1)",
    input: "rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.15)",
    ring: "#8e8e8e",
    chart1: "#8b5cf6",
    chart2: "#10b981",
    chart3: "#f59e0b",
    chart4: "#ec4899",
    chart5: "#dc2626",
    sidebar: "#343434",
    sidebarForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarPrimary: "#8b5cf6",
    sidebarPrimaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarAccent: "#444444",
    sidebarAccentForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarBorder: "rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1)",
    sidebarRing: "#707070",
  },
};

export const useTheme = () => {
  const colorScheme = useColorScheme();

  return theme[colorScheme || "light"];
};

// Suppress SVGElement error
class SVGElement {}

// @ts-ignore
globalThis.SVGElement = SVGElement;
```

- **Optional:** Theme your stack navigator:

```tsx filename="app/_layout.tsx" copy
import {useTheme} from "@/lib/utils/theme";
import {Stack, StatusBar} from "expo-router";
import {useColorScheme} from "react-native";
import "./global.css";

export default function RootLayout() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const colorScheme = useColorScheme();

  return (
    <>
      <StatusBar style={colorScheme === "dark" ? "light" : "dark"} />
      <Stack
        screenOptions={{
          title: "Expo Starter",
          contentStyle: {backgroundColor: theme.background},
          headerTitleStyle: {color: theme.foreground},
          headerStyle: {backgroundColor: theme.background},
        }}
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

- **Web** You may need to manually add the dark class to the body element on web. Add the following to your root layout:

```tsx copy
// Handle dark mode class for web
useEffect(() => {
  if (Platform.OS === "web") {
    // Type assertion for web platform where document is available
    const doc = (globalThis as any).document;
    if (doc) {
      const root = doc.documentElement;
      if (colorScheme === "dark") {
        root.classList.add("dark");
      } else {
        root.classList.remove("dark");
      }
    }
  }
}, [colorScheme]);
```

> [!NOTE]
>
> This theme is the base neutral theme from shadcn/ui. See more themes here [shadcn/themes](https://ui.shadcn.com/themes)

See the [themes](/docs/themes) section for more information.

### Configure the Shadcn CLI

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you are adding components manually, you can skip this step.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Do not use the shadcn init command. It will break your configuration. We are working on our own CLI.

Create a `components.json` file. This is a list of all the components you want to use.

```json filename="components.json" copy
{
  "$schema": "https://ui.shadcn.com/schema.json",
  "style": "new-york",
  "rsc": true,
  "tsx": true,
  "tailwind": {
    "config": "",
    "css": "app/globals.css",
    "baseColor": "neutral",
    "cssVariables": true,
    "prefix": ""
  },
  "aliases": {
    "components": "@/components",
    "utils": "@/lib/utils",
    "ui": "@/components/ui",
    "lib": "@/lib",
    "hooks": "@/hooks"
  },
  "iconLibrary": "lucide"
}
```

For more information on the `components.json` file, see the [`components.json`](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components-json) documentation.

### Configure TypeScript

Update your `tsconfig.json` file to:

```json filename="tsconfig.json" copy
{
  "extends": "@react-native/typescript-config",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "esnext",
    "types": ["nativewind", "react-native"],
    "jsxImportSource": "nativewind",
    "jsx": "preserve",
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "moduleResolution": "bundler",
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "@/*": ["./*"]
    }
  },
  "include": [
    "**/*.ts",
    "**/*.tsx",
    ".expo/types/**/*.ts",
    "expo-env.d.ts",
    "nativewind-env.d.ts"
  ],
  "exclude": ["node_modules"]
}
```

### Add a Component

Test your setup by adding a component to your project.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://shadcn-native.moveinready.casa/registry/button
    ```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    npx shadcn@latest add https://shadcn-native.moveinready.casa/registry/button
    ```
    
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

All done! You can now start building your app.

</Steps>

## Troubleshooting

### Jest `Cannot find module '@/lib/utils/theme'`

If you are testing with Jest you may run into this error. To fix it add the following to your jest config:

```js copy
moduleNameMapper: {
    "^@/(.*)": "<rootDir>/registry/$1",
  },
```

### Styles not applying with Expo

Restart your Expo server.

```shell copy
expo start --clear
```

### Styles not applying (React Native or Expo)

If your styles still aren't applying, make sure you are importing the `globals.css` file in your root layout.

### Dark mode not working (web)

Add the following to your root layout:

```tsx copy
// Handle dark mode class for web
useEffect(() => {
  if (Platform.OS === "web") {
    // Type assertion for web platform where document is available
    const doc = (globalThis as any).document;
    if (doc) {
      const root = doc.documentElement;
      if (colorScheme === "dark") {
        root.classList.add("dark");
      } else {
        root.classList.remove("dark");
      }
    }
  }
}, [colorScheme]);
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): add nativewind v5 notice UNSUPPORTED

app/docs/getting-started/page.mdx, after:

import {Steps} from "nextra/components";
import {Tabs} from "nextra/components";

# Getting Started

## Quick Start

If you are looking to get started quickly, we recommend using the [expo-starter](https://github.com/moveinready-casa/expo-starter) project.

<Steps>
## Use the template or clone the repo

## Install the dependencies

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   pnpm install 
   ```
   
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   npm install 
   ```
   
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Run the project

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   pnpm start 
   ```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   npm run start 
   ```
   
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Reset the project

Once you are done playing with the demo, you can reset the project by running the following command:

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy
   pnpm reset 
   ```

   </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```shell copy 
  npm run reset
  ```
  
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

</Steps>

## Manual Installation

If you have an existing project, or want to install shadcn-native manually, you can do so by following the steps below.

### Using Nativewind v5

Currently Nativewind v5 is in preview and is very buggy. However, if you want to try checkout the [v5 branch](https://github.com/moveinready-casa/expo-starter/tree/v5) on the starter template.

<Steps>
### Install the core dependencies

These are the core dependencies you will need to install to use any of the components. Each component may ship its own dependencies.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["expo", "pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    expo install @expo/browser-polyfill tailwind-variants@3.x.x tw-merge@3.x.x twrnc@4.x.x lucide-react-native@0.540.x nativewind@4.x.x react-native-reanimated@~3.x.x react-native-safe-area-context@5.x.x
     
    expo install -D tailwindcss@^3.4.17 prettier-plugin-tailwindcss@^0.5.11

    expo install @expo/router
    expo install @expo/vector-icons
    expo install @expo/linking
    expo install @expo/constants
    expo install @expo/dev-client
    ```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    pnpm install tailwind-variants@3.x.x tw-merge@3.x.x twrnc@4.x.x lucide-react-native@0.540.x nativewind@4.x.x react-native-reanimated@~3.x.x react-native-safe-area-context@5.x.x
    pnpm install -D tailwindcss@^3.4.17 prettier-plugin-tailwindcss@^0.5.11
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    npm install tailwind-variants@3.x.x tw-merge@3.x.x twrnc@4.x.x lucide-react-native@0.540.x nativewind@4.x.x react-native-reanimated@~3.x.x react-native-safe-area-context@5.x.x
    npm install --save-dev tailwindcss@^3.4.17 prettier-plugin-tailwindcss@^0.5.11
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Configure Nativewind

> [!NOTE]
>
> Make sure to place your `globals.css` file in the `app` directory of your project.

- [Expo](https://www.nativewind.dev/docs/getting-started/installation#2-setup-tailwind-css)
- [React Native (Frameworkless)](https://www.nativewind.dev/docs/getting-started/installation/frameworkless#2-setup-tailwind-css)

### Configure Themes

Themes are hard to get right. This is the approach we recommend. See the [themes](/docs/themes) section for more information.

- Update your `tailwind.config.js` file to:

```js filename="tailwind.config.js" copy
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
  darkMode: "class",
  // Update this to your project's paths
  content: ["./app/**/*.{ts,tsx}", "./components/**/*.{ts,tsx}"],
  presets: [require("nativewind/preset")],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        border: "var(--border)",
        input: "var(--input)",
        ring: "var(--ring)",
        background: "var(--background)",
        foreground: "var(--foreground)",
        primary: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--primary)",
          foreground: "var(--primary-foreground)",
        },
        secondary: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--secondary)",
          foreground: "var(--secondary-foreground)",
        },
        destructive: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--destructive)",
          foreground: "var(--destructive-foreground)",
        },
        success: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--success)",
          foreground: "var(--success-foreground)",
        },
        warning: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--warning)",
          foreground: "var(--warning-foreground)",
        },
        muted: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--muted)",
          foreground: "var(--muted-foreground)",
        },
        accent: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--accent)",
          foreground: "var(--accent-foreground)",
        },
        popover: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--popover)",
          foreground: "var(--popover-foreground)",
        },
        card: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--card)",
          foreground: "var(--card-foreground)",
        },
        sidebar: {
          DEFAULT: "var(--sidebar-background)",
          foreground: "var(--sidebar-foreground)",
          primary: "var(--sidebar-primary)",
          "primary-foreground": "var(--sidebar-primary-foreground)",
          accent: "var(--sidebar-accent)",
          "accent-foreground": "var(--sidebar-accent-foreground)",
          border: "var(--sidebar-border)",
          ring: "var(--sidebar-ring)",
        },
      },
      borderRadius: {
        xl: "calc(var(--radius) + 4px)",
        lg: "var(--radius)",
        md: "calc(var(--radius) - 2px)",
        sm: "calc(var(--radius) - 4px)",
        full: "100%",
      },
    },
  },
  plugins: [],
};
```

- Update your `app/globals.css` file to:

```css filename="app/globals.css" copy
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer base {
  :root {
    --radius: 0.625rem;
    --background: #ffffff;
    --foreground: #252525;
    --card: #ffffff;
    --card-foreground: #252525;
    --popover: #ffffff;
    --popover-foreground: #252525;
    --primary: #343434;
    --primary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --secondary: #f7f7f7;
    --secondary-foreground: #343434;
    --success: #22c55e;
    --warning: #eab308;
    --muted: #f7f7f7;
    --muted-foreground: #8e8e8e;
    --accent: #f7f7f7;
    --accent-foreground: #343434;
    --destructive: #ef4444;
    --border: #ebebeb;
    --input: #ebebeb;
    --ring: #b5b5b5;
    --chart-1: #f97316;
    --chart-2: #06b6d4;
    --chart-3: #3b82f6;
    --chart-4: #84cc16;
    --chart-5: #f59e0b;
    --sidebar: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-foreground: #252525;
    --sidebar-primary: #343434;
    --sidebar-primary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-accent: #f7f7f7;
    --sidebar-accent-foreground: #343434;
    --sidebar-border: #ebebeb;
    --sidebar-ring: #b5b5b5;
  }

  .dark:root {
    --background: #252525;
    --foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --card: #343434;
    --card-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --popover: #444444;
    --popover-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --primary: #ebebeb;
    --primary-foreground: #343434;
    --secondary: #444444;
    --secondary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --muted: #444444;
    --muted-foreground: #b5b5b5;
    --accent: #5f5f5f;
    --accent-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --destructive: #dc2626;
    --success: #16a34a;
    --warning: #ca8a04;
    --border: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
    --input: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.15);
    --ring: #8e8e8e;
    --chart-1: #8b5cf6;
    --chart-2: #10b981;
    --chart-3: #f59e0b;
    --chart-4: #ec4899;
    --chart-5: #dc2626;
    --sidebar: #343434;
    --sidebar-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-primary: #8b5cf6;
    --sidebar-primary-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-accent: #444444;
    --sidebar-accent-foreground: #fbfbfb;
    --sidebar-border: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
    --sidebar-ring: #707070;
  }
}
```

- Add the `theme.ts` file to your project:

```ts filename="lib/utils/theme.ts" copy
import {useColorScheme} from "react-native";

export const theme = {
  light: {
    radius: "0.625rem",
    background: "#ffffff",
    foreground: "#252525",
    card: "#ffffff",
    cardForeground: "#252525",
    popover: "#ffffff",
    popoverForeground: "#252525",
    primary: "#343434",
    primaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    secondary: "#f7f7f7",
    secondaryForeground: "#343434",
    success: "#22c55e",
    warning: "#eab308",
    muted: "#f7f7f7",
    mutedForeground: "#8e8e8e",
    accent: "#f7f7f7",
    accentForeground: "#343434",
    destructive: "#ef4444",
    border: "#ebebeb",
    input: "#ebebeb",
    ring: "#b5b5b5",
    chart1: "#f97316",
    chart2: "#06b6d4",
    chart3: "#3b82f6",
    chart4: "#84cc16",
    chart5: "#f59e0b",
    sidebar: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarForeground: "#252525",
    sidebarPrimary: "#343434",
    sidebarPrimaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarAccent: "#f7f7f7",
    sidebarAccentForeground: "#343434",
    sidebarBorder: "#ebebeb",
    sidebarRing: "#b5b5b5",
  },
  dark: {
    background: "#252525",
    foreground: "#fbfbfb",
    card: "#343434",
    cardForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    popover: "#444444",
    popoverForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    primary: "#ebebeb",
    primaryForeground: "#343434",
    secondary: "#444444",
    secondaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    muted: "#444444",
    mutedForeground: "#b5b5b5",
    accent: "#5f5f5f",
    accentForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    destructive: "#dc2626",
    success: "#16a34a",
    warning: "#ca8a04",
    border: "rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1)",
    input: "rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.15)",
    ring: "#8e8e8e",
    chart1: "#8b5cf6",
    chart2: "#10b981",
    chart3: "#f59e0b",
    chart4: "#ec4899",
    chart5: "#dc2626",
    sidebar: "#343434",
    sidebarForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarPrimary: "#8b5cf6",
    sidebarPrimaryForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarAccent: "#444444",
    sidebarAccentForeground: "#fbfbfb",
    sidebarBorder: "rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1)",
    sidebarRing: "#707070",
  },
};

export const useTheme = () => {
  const colorScheme = useColorScheme();

  return theme[colorScheme || "light"];
};

// Suppress SVGElement error
class SVGElement {}

// @ts-ignore
globalThis.SVGElement = SVGElement;
```

- **Optional:** Theme your stack navigator:

```tsx filename="app/_layout.tsx" copy
import {useTheme} from "@/lib/utils/theme";
import {Stack, StatusBar} from "expo-router";
import {useColorScheme} from "react-native";
import "./global.css";

export default function RootLayout() {
  const theme = useTheme();
  const colorScheme = useColorScheme();

  return (
    <>
      <StatusBar style={colorScheme === "dark" ? "light" : "dark"} />
      <Stack
        screenOptions={{
          title: "Expo Starter",
          contentStyle: {backgroundColor: theme.background},
          headerTitleStyle: {color: theme.foreground},
          headerStyle: {backgroundColor: theme.background},
        }}
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

- **Web** You may need to manually add the dark class to the body element on web. Add the following to your root layout:

```tsx copy
// Handle dark mode class for web
useEffect(() => {
  if (Platform.OS === "web") {
    // Type assertion for web platform where document is available
    const doc = (globalThis as any).document;
    if (doc) {
      const root = doc.documentElement;
      if (colorScheme === "dark") {
        root.classList.add("dark");
      } else {
        root.classList.remove("dark");
      }
    }
  }
}, [colorScheme]);
```

> [!NOTE]
>
> This theme is the base neutral theme from shadcn/ui. See more themes here [shadcn/themes](https://ui.shadcn.com/themes)

See the [themes](/docs/themes) section for more information.

### Configure the Shadcn CLI

> [!NOTE]
>
> If you are adding components manually, you can skip this step.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Do not use the shadcn init command. It will break your configuration. We are working on our own CLI.

Create a `components.json` file. This is a list of all the components you want to use.

```json filename="components.json" copy
{
  "$schema": "https://ui.shadcn.com/schema.json",
  "style": "new-york",
  "rsc": true,
  "tsx": true,
  "tailwind": {
    "config": "",
    "css": "app/globals.css",
    "baseColor": "neutral",
    "cssVariables": true,
    "prefix": ""
  },
  "aliases": {
    "components": "@/components",
    "utils": "@/lib/utils",
    "ui": "@/components/ui",
    "lib": "@/lib",
    "hooks": "@/hooks"
  },
  "iconLibrary": "lucide"
}
```

For more information on the `components.json` file, see the [`components.json`](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components-json) documentation.

### Configure TypeScript

Update your `tsconfig.json` file to:

```json filename="tsconfig.json" copy
{
  "extends": "@react-native/typescript-config",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "esnext",
    "types": ["nativewind", "react-native"],
    "jsxImportSource": "nativewind",
    "jsx": "preserve",
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "moduleResolution": "bundler",
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "@/*": ["./*"]
    }
  },
  "include": [
    "**/*.ts",
    "**/*.tsx",
    ".expo/types/**/*.ts",
    "expo-env.d.ts",
    "nativewind-env.d.ts"
  ],
  "exclude": ["node_modules"]
}
```

### Add a Component

Test your setup by adding a component to your project.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Tabs items={["pnpm", "npm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://shadcn-native.moveinready.casa/registry/button
    ```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    ```shell copy
    npx shadcn@latest add https://shadcn-native.moveinready.casa/registry/button
    ```
    
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

All done! You can now start building your app.

</Steps>

## Troubleshooting

### Jest `Cannot find module '@/lib/utils/theme'`

If you are testing with Jest you may run into this error. To fix it add the following to your jest config:

```js copy
moduleNameMapper: {
    "^@/(.*)": "<rootDir>/registry/$1",
  },
```

### Styles not applying with Expo

Restart your Expo server.

```shell copy
expo start --clear
```

### Styles not applying (React Native or Expo)

If your styles still aren't applying, make sure you are importing the `globals.css` file in your root layout.

### Dark mode not working (web)

Add the following to your root layout:

```tsx copy
// Handle dark mode class for web
useEffect(() => {
  if (Platform.OS === "web") {
    // Type assertion for web platform where document is available
    const doc = (globalThis as any).document;
    if (doc) {
      const root = doc.documentElement;
      if (colorScheme === "dark") {
        root.classList.add("dark");
      } else {
        root.classList.remove("dark");
      }
    }
  }
}, [colorScheme]);
```
